meanwhile Israel's military has
presented a plan to get more Aid into
Gaza the Army says as many as 500 trucks
a day could soon be delivering
supplies we are constructing the
northern crossing a new land Crossing
from Israel into Northern Gaza to enable
more Aid to flow directly to civilians
in the areas that have been challenging
for the trucks to access we have worked
with International partners to bring in
more aid from the sea via the port of
ashdod after which it will be
transported down to the crossings into
Gaza let's look at this with Bob kitchen
who is vice president for emergencies at
the International Rescue committee and
welcome to DW and what sort of
difference do you think uh this
announcement will
make thanks for having me it remains to
be seen in short uh we've heard this
before that there'll be an increase in
Aid coming in and over the last few days
we have seen a slight uptick but it's
gone from a trickle to a small flow it's
nowhere near the scale of humanitarian
Aid the more than one million people
that are now on the doorstep of famine
urgently require and it's not just the
trucks getting in it's the safety
environment inside the Gaza Strip and
the permissions that Israel have to
provide Aid organizations and the UN to
be able to move around to transfer and
to distribute the aid they're sorely
lacking right now at the moment the uh
the the deaths uh last week of those um
Aid workers uh that has that has has
damaged your your faith in um assurances
from the
IDF the attack on world Central Kitchen
was a tragedy but it's not the only
attack on Aid organizations the IRC and
map UK's compound was was bombed in
January as have many other organizations
so the the trust in the deconfliction
system has been shaken many many times
and it's not just that it's the
day-to-day requesting permissions and
then being denied even though the needs
are
massive last week Israel also announced
that it would open the BET hanon
Crossing in the north of Gaza and today
we have the IDF saying a new Crossing
will open in the north so is it your
understanding that there should soon be
two Aid Crossings into the north of
Gaza I was just in Gaza I just returned
last night spent three days on the
ground talking to Partners in the United
Nations what I heard there while I
wasn't permitted to go to the north was
that there is only one under
consideration it's a newer Crossing uh
further to the West than Ares so none of
them are open right now we'll have to
see in the coming days and what did you
see when you were in uh Southern
Gaza I saw the great destruction that
we've all seen on the news that was a
given the the level of Destruction is
severe but what I also saw was a massive
population that has been displaced from
the north to the South with multiple
displacements along the way now
Sheltering in Rafer in the southern city
which pre-war was 300,000 people
population and it's now close to 1.5
that the burden on that small town with
so many people now Sheltering trying to
get away from the violence from the
incessant and indiscriminate bombing is
evident there are tents everywhere there
is no open land in the whole town as
people have flooded in there's not
enough Aid even flowing there never mind
the rest of the Gaza Strip so the
situation is is desperate as has been
confirmed today by the US government
that famine is now a thing in the north
it's a risk across the whole strip so
the situation really is desperate and I
saw that firsthand so even if Aid is
delivered at the rate promised uh by the
IDF spokesperson
um that's still not going to be
enough I don't think we've heard the
scale that they're promising and we've
definitely not seen it 500 uh trucks I'm
told so up to 500 trucks trucks equals
just about the number of trucks that
were going in pre- Conflict what we've
seen between then and now though is a
complete destruction of much of the
infrastructure the total displacement of
of a large portion of the population and
the the total annihilation of any food
security so to say to we're going to get
back to pre-conflict levels is woefully
inadequate we have to double triple
quadruple that level to catch back up to
help people recover and and for that to
even be feasible there needs to be a
ceasefire we can't help people stabilize
put back on weight move away from famine
if they're terrified every day and night
of ongoing attacks which continue I was
working up on Tuesday Morning by uh uh
missiles being fired from battleships
offshore onto Rafa it it's incessant all
the time thank you for joining us and uh
painting such a vivid picture Bob
kitchen from the International Rescue
committee